{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f32\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f33\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f35\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f36\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f37\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f38\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f39\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f53\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s16\ql \li288\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin288\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 section;}}{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid-1888556898\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\chbrdr
\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693
\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698689\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23
\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }
{\listname ;}\listid811092407}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid811092407\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title This file contains the installation instructions for the example code for the book Python Game Programming by Sean Riley}
{\author sean}{\operator sean}{\creatim\yr2003\mo8\dy24\hr21\min33}{\revtim\yr2003\mo9\dy25\hr9\min24}{\printim\yr2003\mo8\dy17\hr22\min10}{\version4}{\edmins5}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords807}{\nofchars4601}{\*\company  sean}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}
{\*\userprops {\propname _AdHocReviewCycleID}\proptype3{\staticval 107625152}{\propname _EmailSubject}\proptype30{\staticval Install.doc}{\propname _AuthorEmail}\proptype30{\staticval sriley@ncaustin.com}{\propname _AuthorEmailDisplayName}\proptype30
{\staticval Sean Riley}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\makebackup\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs32 Installing and Running the Software
\par }{
\par Running the example programs from the book requires that a number of software packages be installed. First, the Python programming must be installed on the computer. , Also, as games have complex infrastructure requirem
ents, additional the libraries for PyGame, PyUI and PyOpenGL must also be installed. Finally, to run the multiplayer example code, the Twisted package must also be installed.
\par 
\par The instructions below explain how to install each of the required components in
 order. These instructions are for installing on Microsoft Windows machines. It is a good idea to shut down all programs on the machine before continuing with the installation. Some of the installation programs will prompt you for installation locations a
nd other options. For the easiest install, the default locations and installation options should be accepted.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Step 1. Install Python
\par }{All of the example programs on the CD require Python to run. The CD includes the installer for the Python standard distribution for Microsoft Windows. To install Python, open the file }{\i Python-2.2.3.exe }{
or execute it from a command line. Further information about installing Python can be found at }{\field{\*\fldinst {\i  HYPERLINK "http://www.python.org" }{\i {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000001600000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0070007900740068006f006e002e006f00720067000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b2e00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0070007900740068006f006e00
2e006f00720067002f0000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs15\i\ul\cf2 http://www.python.org}}}{. This step may take a few minutes to complete, as the full Python distribution is quiet large.
\par 
\par $ Python-2.2.3.exe
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Step 2. Install PyGame
\par }{All of the example programs on the CD also require PyGame to run. The CD includes the installer for the Microsoft Windows distribution of PyGame. To install PyGame, open the }{\i pygame-1.5.6.win32.py2.2.exe}{
 or execute it from a command line. Further information about installing PyGame can be found at }{\i http://www.pygame.org}{.
\par 
\par $ pygame-1.5.6.win32.py2.2.exe
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Step 3. Install PyOpenGL
\par }{Many of the example programs use the OpenGL graphics library. The PyOpenGL library provides access to OpenGL from Python. To install it, open the file }{\i PyOpenGL-2.0.0.44.win32-py2.2.exe}{
 or execute it from the command line. Further information about installing PyOpenGL can be found at http }{\i http://pyopengl.sourceforge.net}{.
\par 
\par $ PyOpenGL-2.0.0.44.win32-py2.2.exe
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Step 4. Install PyUI
\par }{Many of the example programs also use the PyUI library. The CD contains the PyUI installer for Microsoft Windows. To install PyUI, open the file }{\i PyUI-1.0.win32-py2.2.exe}{
 or execute it from a command line. Further information about installing PyUI can be found at http }{\i http://pyui.sourceforge.net}{.
\par 
\par $ PyUI-1.0.win32-py2.2.exe
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Step 5. Install Twisted
\par }{The multiplayer examples in section 5 of the book require the Twisted library to run. The CD includes the 1.06 version of the Twisted distribution. To install it, open the file }{\i Twisted-1.0.6.win32.py2.2.exe}{
 or execute it from a command line. Further information about installing Twisted can be found at }{\i http://www.twistedmatrix.com}{.
\par 
\par $ Twisted-1.0.6.win32.py2.2.exe
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Step 6. Install Hoop Library
\par }{The Hoop library is code that is developed and explained within the book. This code is library is used by the example programs after Chapter 8 in the book, so it must be installed for those example programs to run. To install it, open the file }{\i 
Hoop-1.0.win32-py2.2.exe}{ or execute it from a command line. In addition to the installer, the full source code of the Hoop library is also on the CD.
\par 
\par $ Hoop-1.0.win32-py2.2.exe
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Running Python
\par }{Once the software is installed, an interactive Python interpreter can be started by opening the }{\i python.exe}{ executable. By default, this file resides in the directory }{\i c:/Python22}{, which is the default Python installation location. When t
his file is opened, a window will appear that allow Python code to be entered and executed in an interactive environment. The prompt in the window should look something like the text below.
\par 
\par }{\f2\fs16 Python 2.2.3 (#37, Oct 14 2002, 17:02:34) [MSC 32 bit (Intel)] on win32
\par Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
\par >>>
\par }{
\par This is the Python interactive interpreter. It allows Python commands to be executed, as in the short example shown below.
\par 
\par }{\f2     >>> x = 55
\par     >>> y = 100
\par     >>> print x + y
\par     155
\par     >>> l = [x,y]
\par     >>> l.append(101)
\par     >>> print l
\par     [55, 100, 101]
\par }{
\par The interpreter can be very useful for experimenting with small pieces of Python code, or discovering the exact syntax to perform operations in Python. It can be exited by pressing }{\i Control-Z}{ and then the return key, or by pressing }{\i 
Control-Break}{.
\par 
\par }{\b Running the Example Code}{
\par There are two ways to run the example code that comes with this book. The first, and easiest way is to open the Python files with the Windows file explore
r by double clicking on them. As the ".py" extension was registered with the operating system when Python was installed, this invoked the Python interpreter and runs the program in the selected file.
\par 
\par The second method is to execute the files from a comman
d line. This method can be preferable if you want to keep the text that was printed by the Python program, or if you wish to maintain settings or an environment across multiple executions of a program. The example below shows the example program }{\i 
pongMain.py}{ being executed from its directory on the CD-ROM.
\par 
\par }{\f2     D:\\chapter12>cd pong
\par     D:\\chapter12\\pong>pongMain.py
\par     Creating font: arial
\par     Creating font: impact
\par     FPS: 322 mobiles: 2 statics: 0
\par     FPS: 356 mobiles: 2 statics: 0
\par     FPS: 351 mobiles: 2 statics: 0
\par     D:\\chapter12\\pong>}{
\par 
\par Most of the example programs can be exited by pressing the }{\i Escape }{key. Many of them print status, or informational messages to the windows that they were executed from.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 System Requirements
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {The following system requirements should be met to run the example code on the CD-ROM:
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin720\itap0 {Microsoft Windows 98/2000/ME/XP/NT
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}Pentium II 400mhz or equivalent
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}64MB physical RAM
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}Video card with 4MB VRAM
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}60MB disk space
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par In addition, an OpenGL hardware accelerated graphics card will increase the performance of the graphical example programs, and a 28.8K modem or TCP/IP network connection is required for the multiplayer example programs.
\par 
\par The Python code on the CD-ROM was written for version 2.2.3 of Python. It }{\i may}{ work with other versions of Python, but it is recommended that the correct version be used.
\par 
\par }}